---
title: FAQ
date: 2021-09-14 15:44:17
permalink: /01/03/01/10/
---
## Device Or Module Usage Problems

1. How to query current mode of the equipment?

   The current working status of the equipment can be queried using the following methods:

   | Method                 | Operation                                                    |
   | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
   | Query by Heartbeat LED | 1. Wait about 10s, check if there is heartbeat LED<br />2. Green，device is under relay mode (Normal)<br />3. Red，Joining to network<br />4. NA, device is undr sleep mode |
   | Query by Button        | 1. Press button and observe LED pattern<br />2. R / G Alt., Device is under SLEEP mode<br />3. **Red Strobe**，device is joining network<br />4. **Green Strobe**，device is under relay mode<br />5. Release button in 5s to prevent triggering other button functions and causing the device to reset |

2. How to exit without triggering any function after the button is pressed?

   Keep the button in the pressed state until the LED light is off. At this time, releasing the button will not generate any key value and will not trigger any function.

3. How to shut down the active device?

   1. Press the button until the yellow light flashes to restart the device
   2. Press the button until the red light is on and let go (the whole process does not exceed 15 seconds)

## Network Problems

1. How to troubleshoot device access failures?

   1. Ensure that the server has correctly registered the device information DevEUI, AppEUI, and Appkey of the Queqiao relay
   2. Ensure that the target installation location is covered by the gateway and the frequency band information matches

2. How to speed up device access to the network during the installation process?

   The red LED flashes after the button is pressed. Release the button at this time to trigger an accelerated network access operation. After successfully accessing the network, press the button and the green light flashes. At this time, release the button to trigger an active data heartbeat packet.

## Installation Problem

1. The installation test does not turn on the green light, but the signal is always weak. 

   Try again after changing the installation location. Or consider re-planning the gateway installation location.

