---
permalink: /04/01/01/
title: IoTSquare Deployment Guide
date: 2023-02-28 17:00:00
---

## Introduction
IoTSquare is a small LoRaWAN network developed by Ruixing Hengfang Network (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. for public cloud or private server micro data platform. With the IoTSquare platform, users can easily and quickly debug and test deployed LoRaWAN networks
Trial, O&M management, application data management. Supports access to up to 300 gateways and 100K nodes.
Thanks to the accumulation and precipitation of Ruixing Hengfang's many years of technology in the field of LoRaWAN, IoTSquare provides a complete preset area frequency meter
For example, CN470, EU868, AS923, US915, etc., can cover commonly used frequency bands at home and abroad.
In terms of connectivity, the IoTSquare platform is fully compatible with the LoRaWAN standard and can be seamlessly connected with Ruixing Hengfang's full line of gateway and node products.
It helps device manufacturers quickly realize IoT capabilities, and can also customize advanced features on demand to provide targeted optimization for specific application scenarios.

## Server configuration requirements
Depending on the customer's target network capacity, server host configurations can be differentiated to save costs.

When using cloud server deployment, do not choose low-profile virtual machines for dev-test environments, if you choose a cloud provider.
It is recommended to use Alibaba Cloud's ECSs for gateway deployments in China, and Amazon AWS EC2 for gateways deployed abroad.

| Network size | Micro | Small | Medium |
|-----------|------------|------------|-------------|
| Number of gateways | 1-50       | 1-100      | 100-300     |
| Number of nodes | 5k       | 10k        | 100K        |
| Total number of upstream packets per second for the node | < 40       | < 80       | < 200       | 
| Deployment Mode | Stand-alone deployment | Stand-alone deployment | Stand-alone deployment | 
| CPU       | 4-core 3.00GHz | 8-core 3.00GHz | 16-core 3.00GHz | 
| Memory | 4G and above | 8G and above | 16G and above |
| Hard disk | 256GB SSD  | 512GB SSD  | 2TB SSD     | 
| Network | Gigabit | Gigabit | Gigabit |

## Deployment process (Ruixing assisted deployment)
1. The customer purchases a server or/cloud server/cloud virtual machine according to the recommended configuration according to the required network scale
2. The customer provides the server login method, including but not limited to SSH private key, SSH password, VPN login software and account, remote software such as Sunflower or ToDesk remote access password
3. Ruixing Hengfang's engineers install and deploy IoTSquare according to the configuration selected by the customer, and it will be completed within 1-3 working days under normal circumstances
5. After the deployment is completed, the customer is notified by email for testing and acceptance
6. After the customer acceptance, notify Ruixing Hengfang, and remove the server access permission in step 2.
7. Done
   Notes:
   Customers should provide contact information of operation and maintenance engineers or service developers to communicate in a timely manner in case of abnormal situations