---
title: development manual
date: 2023-06-30 10:10:10
permalink: /01/02/07/02/
---

# **Secondary development instruction manual**

## **Brief introduction**

RHF2S027M allows users to perform secondary development. RHF2S027M software is developed based on the open source embedded operating system OpenWRT. On this basis, we have developed a variety of easy-to-use software interfaces. In addition, we also provide support for users to integrate third-party LoRa services.

This article will not only introduce these software interfaces and how to use them, but also guide you how to help you integrate third-party LoRa services faster through some of our support.

## **Hardware Resources**

The hardware resources of the RHF2S027M baseboard are as follows:

- 1 USB interface
- 2 Ethernet interfaces
- 1 SX1301 LoRa module
- 1 reset button
- 1 reserved button
- 1 USB indicator light
- 1 LoRa indicator light
- 1 WiFi indicator
- 1 power indicator
- 1 serial port for development

The SOC used by RHF2S027M is WRTM-326ACN, and its hardware resources are as follows:

- Main chip: MT7620A
  - Kernel: MIPS24KEc
  - Main frequency: 580MHz
  - Memory: DDR 2 128MB
  - Flash：256M
- Wireless speed: 300m

## **Debugging Interface**

RHF2S027M mainly provides two debugging methods:

- Serial port
- SSH

Whether you use serial port or SSH to log on to the device, the default username and password are as follows:

Username: root

Password: risinghf

## **Use lora_service to manage your packet forwarder**

This section describes how to use lora_service to manage newly added packet forwarder more easily.

RHF2S027M supports a variety of packet forwarder, such as RisingHF Packet Forwarder that uses UDP protocol based on deep customization of Packet Forwarder Link, and on this basis, the IoTSquare that connects to MQTT Server through bridge (IoTSquare includes Packet Forwarder Link),lora_service is the application used to manage these LoRa services. We recommend that you register new packet forwarder with lora_service for unified management.

Of course, you may not use it.

#### **Register LoRa service**

Assume that your new lora service is named lora_pkt_fwd, which is compiled using the correct cross-compilation tool chain and can run normally in the openwrt system of RHF2S027M.

Now let's install it into the system first. The installation of LoRa service program should comply with the Directory Specification of the Gateway system. The existing LoRa service program is installed in the/home/rxhf directory, so the newly added LoRa service is also installed in this directory:

```
mkdir -p /home/rxhf/my_loraserver
```

Then, use scp or other methods to upload the lora_pkt_fwd stored locally to the/home/rxhf/my_loraserver Directory of the Gateway.

Then run the following command to register the LoRa service to the lora_service manager.

```
lora_service --cmd "add" --name "my_loraserver" \
    --menu "my_loraserver" --index "15" \
    --start "/home/rxhf/my_loraserver/start-loraserver.sh" \
    --stop "/home/rxhf/my_loraserver/stop-loraserver.sh" \
    --configs "/home/rxhf/my_loraserver/global_conf.json /home/rxhf/my_loraserver/local_conf.json"
```

Next, implement the start/stop script of the packet forwarder, that is, the script specified by -- start and -- stop in the preceding command.

The implementation of the start-loraserver.sh is as follows:

```
#!/bin/sh

SRC_DIR=$(readlink -f $0)
SRC_DIR=$(dirname $SRC_DIR)
PIDFILE="/var/run/my_loraserver.pid"

if [ -d "$SRC_DIR" ]; then
    # 切换工作目录
    cd "$SRC_DIR"
    # 复位lora模组，同reset_lgw.sh
    /usr/local/sbin/gwrst
    # 使用start-stop-daemon来以守护进程的方式启动lora_pkt_fwd，便于管理
    start-stop-daemon -S -q -b -p "$PIDFILE" -m -x "$SRC_DIR/lora_pkt_fwd"
fi
exit "$?"
```

Stop script -- stop-loraserver.sh is implemented as follows:

```
#!/bin/sh

PIDFILE="/var/run/my_loraserver.pid"

start-stop-daemon -K -q -p "$PIDFILE" 2> /dev/null
rm "$PIDFILE" 2> /dev/null
exit 0
```

#### **Set lora service to start after startup**

Run the following command to start the LoRa service:

```
lora_service --cmd use --name my_loraserver
```

After the command is executed, my_loraserver starts up immediately, and then RHF2S027M starts up the LoRa service automatically when it enters the system.

#### **Stop lora service**

```
lora_service --cmd stop
```

#### **Start the lora service**

```
lora_service --cmd start
```

#### **Turn off startup and self-start**

```
lora_service --cmd unuse
```

#### **Query the LoRa service currently in use**

```
lora_service --cmd query
```

For more commands about lora_service, see the help tips:

```
lora_service -h
```

**Note: Command failed may be reported when lora_service is executed: Not found, please ignore**

## **Software interface**

### **Obtain basic Gateway Information**

The Gateway provides some commands to obtain the basic information of the device, which is convenient for users to integrate.

#### **Obtain the Gateway model**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_model
```

#### **Obtain the firmware version**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_fw_ver
```

#### **Obtain the firmware production date**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_fw_date
```

#### **Obtain the hardware version**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_hw_ver
```

#### **Obtain the number of LoRa channels**

Currently, there are 8 channels

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_lora_channel_num
```

#### **Obtain whether the gateway supports full duplex**

yes indicates that full duplex is supported, and no indicates that only half duplex is supported.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_lora_full
```

#### **Obtain battery capacity**

no indicates that the battery is not supported.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_battery
```

#### **Obtain the Linux kernel version**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# uname -r
```

#### **Obtains the running duration of the system.**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# cat /proc/uptime
```

The first character indicates the current running duration of the Gateway. Unit: seconds. As shown above: indicates that the Gateway has been running for 687.67 seconds.

#### **Obtain the current time zone and time**

```
root@rhf2s025b:~# date
Mon May 29 16:22:12 CST 2023

// For more detailed time zone information, you can view the Settings in the /etc/config/system file on the uci interface
root@rhf2s025b:~# uci show system | grep zone
system.@system[0].zonename='Asia/Shanghai'
system.@system[0].timezone='CST-8'
```

#### **Obtain the Ethernet IP address**

```
root@rhf2s025b:~# ifconfig eth0.2
eth0.2    Link encap:Ethernet  HWaddr 40:D6:3C:94:19:94
          inet addr:192.168.0.76  Bcast:192.168.0.255  Mask:255.255.255.0
          inet6 addr: fc00:8b54:ca0a:1:42d6:3cff:fe94:1994/64 Scope:Global
          inet6 addr: fe80::42d6:3cff:fe94:1994/64 Scope:Link
          inet6 addr: fc00:8b54:ca0a:1::e0c/128 Scope:Global
          UP BROADCAST RUNNING MULTICAST  MTU:1500  Metric:1
          RX packets:1980235 errors:0 dropped:8604 overruns:0 frame:0
          TX packets:78455 errors:0 dropped:0 overruns:0 carrier:0
          collisions:0 txqueuelen:1000
          RX bytes:379240801 (361.6 MiB)  TX bytes:6433198 (6.1 MiB)
```

The Ethernet interface of RHF2S027M is eth0.2.

#### **Obtain the current callback network interface**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# netpriority eth
```

#### **Obtain version revision records**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# get_changelog ## 1.0.0Initial version
```

### **Set the priority of the backhaul network (LTE is not supported)**

RHF2S027M supports ethernet, WiFi, and LTE (three kinds of backhaul networks, their priority is: Ethernet> WiFi > LTE, the highest priority Ethernet is used as the backhaul network by default, of course, use the netpriority command to manually set.

netpriority command parameters:

1. eth: Set the back-to-network mode to Ethernet
2. wifi: set the return network mode to WiFi
3. lte: set the return network mode to LTE
4. No parameters (query the current callback network type)

#### **Configure a backhaul network**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# netpriority wifi
```

After running this command, if the wifi is in the networked state, the system changes the type of the return network to WiFi. Otherwise, the network type with the highest priority and in the networked state is used.

#### **View the current network type**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# netpriority // It is a query if no parameter is added
wifi
```

### **Set static IP**

When the device is connected to the network cable, the IP address dynamically assigned by the superior router is obtained through DHCP by default. If you need to set a static IP address, use the setip command to set a static IP address.

The following is a help manual for setip:

```
root@rhf2s025b:~# setip -h
Usage: setip [options]

Options:
  --help                  Show this help
  --mode      <MODE>      IP mode(dhcp, static)
  --addr      <ADDR>      IP addr
  --gateway   <GATEWAY>   IP GATEWAY
  --dns0      <DNS0>      nameserver0
  --dns1      <DNS1>      nameserver1

Examples:
  setip
  setip --mode dhcp
  setip --mode static --addr ADDR --gateway GATEWAY --dns0 DNS0 --dns1 DNS1
```

### **Configure an ntp server**

Set up an NTP server. You can use the setntp command to manage your own NTP server. A maximum of five NTP servers can be created at the same time.

The following is a help manual for setntp:

```
root@rhf2s025b:~# setntp -h
Usage: setntp [options] server

Options:
  --help                  Show this help
  --top     <TOPSERVER>   Top server

Examples:
  setntp SERVER
  setntp --top TOPSERVER
  setntp --top TOPSERVER SERVER
```

-- top: sets the NTP server to the top. This NTP server has the highest priority.

### **LoRa**

#### **Reset LoRa**

The device provides hardware reset LoRa commands. We recommend that you use hardware reset before using LoRa to avoid problems such as program execution failure.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# gwrst
```

#### **Start LoRa**

Use `/etc/init.d/pktfwd` to control LoRa, provided that the LoRa service is registered in the lora_service manager.

```
// Start by querying the LoRa service currently in use
root@rhf2s027:~# lora_service --cmd query

// Choose a LoRa service, pktfwd or iotsquare
root@rhf2s027:~# lora_service --cmd use --name iotsquare
```

Next, we can use `/etc/init.d/pktfwd` to control the Packet Forwarder.

```
// Start Packet Forwarder
root@rhf2s027:~# /etc/init.d/pktfwd start
// Restart Pacet Forwarder
root@rhf2s027:~# /etc/init.d/pktfwd restart
```

However, we do not need to manually call `/etc/init.d/pktfwd start` to start the LoRa service, because the lora_service -- cmd use -- name pktfwd has been called when it is executed, unless we manually stop the Packet Forwarder.

#### **Stop LoRa**

That is, manually stop the Packet Forwarder.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# /etc/init.d/pktfwd stop
```

### **WiFi**

WiFi AP service is mainly used for near-field wireless debugging.

#### **Open WiFi AP service**

WiFi AP service is enabled by default.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# openap
```

#### **Disable WiFi AP service**

If the user does not want to connect to the WiFi AP for security reasons, you can use the closeap command to close it.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# closeap
```

#### **Configure WiFi AP**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# confap -h
--gateway The gateway of the wifi you are connected to
--ssid    The SSID of the wifi you are connected to
--key     The password of the wifi you are connected to
--hidden  Where the SSID is hidden. yes or no
```

#### **View SSID and Key**

```
root@rhf2s027:~# uci show wireless
```

### **ssh management**

#### **Open ssh**

ssh is enabled by default.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# openssh
```

#### **Disable ssh**

If you do not want to log on to the command terminal through ssh for security reasons, you can use the closessh command to close the command.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# closessh
```

### **Debugging serial port**

#### **Open the debugging serial port**

The debugging serial port is opened by default.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# openserial
```

#### **Close the debugging serial port**

If you do not want to log on to the command terminal by debugging the serial port for security reasons, you can use the closeserial command to close it.

```
root@rhf2s027:~# closeserial
```

## **Device logs**

RHF2S027M has two log output directories:/var/log and/home/rxhf/rlog.

### **Logs in the/var/log Directory**

The /var/log directory contains the following logs:

```
root@rhf2s027:~# ls /var/log
lastlog     lighttpd    pktfwd.log  wtmp
```

- lastlog: records the latest logon information of each user.
- lighttpd:lighttpd is a directory. The error.log file contains the error log of the lighttpd process.
- pktfwd.log：Packet Forwarder log。
- wtmp: records logon, logout, and system startup events in the system.

**Note: Since the/var/log directory is mounted on the tmpfs file system, logs in this directory will be cleared after the system is restarted.**

### **Logs in the/home/rxhf/rlog Directory**

The logs in the/home/rxhf/rlog directory are as follows:

```
root@rhf2s027:~# ls /home/rxhf/rlog/
det.log       eth.log       messages      messages.old  runtime.log   shutdown.log
```

- messages: system logs. Records kernel messages, system service logs, network connection information, and hardware failure reports.
- eth.log: records the network status of Ethernet, WiFi, and LTE.
- det.log: records the logs that the system actively restarts because it is not connected to the Internet.
- shutdown.log: records system shutdown logs.
- runtime.log: records the startup time of the device and the running time from this startup to the present.

## **Precautions**

1. After the gateway is powered on, when the USB-to-serial debugger is inserted at a certain moment from the start of the system to the early stage of uboot, the system may get stuck. At this time, you only need to unplug the connection between the serial debugger and the gateway and power up again. The chip manufacturer's technical support explained that this was caused by the reverse current from TX of the serial debugger to RX of the chip.
